BSI Group Headquarters

389 Chiswick High Road London W4 4AL

Tel: +44 (0)20 8996 9000

Fax: +44 (0)20 8996 7400

www.bsigroup.com

Date: 12 July 2023

Origin: International

# Latest date for receipt of comments: 27 September 2023

Project No. 2022/01736

Responsible committee: JPEL/18 Electrical installations of ships and of mobile and fixed offshore units

Interested committees:

Title: BS IEC 63462-1 Maritime battery system

Part 1: Secondary lithium cells and batteries - Safety requirements

Please notify the secretary if you are aware of any keywords that might assist in classifying or identifying the standard or if the content of this standard

i) has any issues related to 3rd party IPR, patent or copyright   
ii) affects other national standard(s)   
iii) requires additional national guidance or information

# WARNING: THIS IS A DRAFT AND MUST NOT BE REGARDED OR USED AS A BRITISH STANDARD. THIS DRAFT IS NOT CURRENT BEYOND 27 September 2023

This draft is issued to allow comments from interested parties; all comments will be given consideration prior to publication. No acknowledgement will normally be sent. See overleaf for information on the submission of comments.

No copying is allowed, in any form, without prior written permission from BSI except as permitted under the Copyright, Designs and Patent Act 1988 or for circulation within a nominating organization for briefing purposes. Electronic circulation is limited to dissemination by e-mail within such an organization by committee members.

Further copies of this draft may be purchased from BSI Shop http://shop.bsigroup.com

or from BSI Customer Services, Tel: +44(0) 20 8996 9001 or email cservices@bsigroup.com.

British, International and foreign standards are also available from BSI Customer Services.

Information on the co-operating organizations represented on the committees referenced above may be obtained from http://standardsdevelopment.bsigroup.com

# Introduction

This draft standard is based on national and international discussions. Your comments on this draft are invited and will assist in the preparation of the consequent standard.

For international standards, comments will be reviewed by the relevant UK national committee before sending the consensus UK vote and comments to the international committee, which will then decide appropriate action. If the international standard is approved, it is usual for the text to be published as a British Standard.

For national standards, comments will be reviewed by the relevant UK national committee and the resulting standards published as a British Standard.

# UK Vote

Please indicate whether you consider the UK should submit a negative (with supporting technical reasons) or positive vote on this draft. Please indicate if you are aware of any reason why this draft standard should not be published as a British Standard.

# Submission of Comments

Annotated drafts are not acceptable and will be rejected.   
All comments should be submitted online at https://standardsdevelopment.bsigroup.com/. You will need to register in order to comment.

Date: xx/xx/20xx

Document: ISO/DIS xxxx

Template for comments and secretariat observations   

<table><tr><td>1</td><td>2</td><td>(3)</td><td>4</td><td>5</td><td>(6)</td><td>7</td></tr><tr><td>MB</td><td>Clause No./ Subclause No./Annex (e.g. 3.1)</td><td>Paragraph/Figure/Table/Note</td><td>Type of comment</td><td>Commend (justification for change) by the MB</td><td>Proposed change by the MB</td><td>Secretariat observations on each comment submitted</td></tr><tr><td></td><td>3.1</td><td>Definition 1</td><td>ed</td><td>Definition is ambiguous and needs clarifying.</td><td>Amend to read &#x27;...so that the mains connector to which no connection...&#x27;</td><td></td></tr><tr><td></td><td>6.4</td><td>Paragraph 2</td><td>te</td><td>The use of the UV photometer as an alternative cannot be supported as serious problems have been encountered in its use in the UK.</td><td>Delete reference to UV photometer.</td><td></td></tr></table>

COMMITTEE DRAFT (CD)

PROJECT NUMBER:

IEC 63462-1 ED1

DATE OF CIRCULATION:

2023-07-07

CLOSING DATE FOR COMMENTS:

2023-10-27

SUPERSEDES DOCUMENTS:

18/1773/NP, 18/1781B/RVN

<table><tr><td colspan="3">IEC TC 18 : ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS OF SHIPS AND OF MOBILE AND FIXED OFFSHORE UNITS</td></tr><tr><td>SERETARIAT: 
Norway</td><td colspan="2">SECRETARY: 
Mr Arild Røed</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2" colspan="2">OF INTEREST TO THE FOLLOWING COMMITTEES: 
SC 18A,TC 21,SC 21A,TC 105,TC 120</td><td>PROPOSED HORIZONTAL STANDARD: 
□</td></tr><tr><td>Other TC/SCs are requested to indicate their interest, if any, in this CD to the secretary.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">FUNCTIONS CONCERNED: 
□ EMC □ ENVIRONMENT</td><td>□ QUALITY ASSURANCE ☑ SAFETY</td></tr></table>

This document is still under study and subject to change. It should not be used for reference purposes.

Recipients of this document are invited to submit, with their comments, notification of any relevant patent rights of which they are aware and to provide supporting documentation.

Recipients of this document are invited to submit, with their comments, notification of any local regulations or technical reasons that may exist and should be considered should this proposal proceed, recognizing that failure to address such requirements could result in the need for new or existing “In Some Countries” clauses. (SEE AC/22/2007 OR NEW GUIDANCE DOC).

TITLE:

Maritime battery system – Part 1: Secondary lithium cells and batteries – Safety requirements

NOTE FROM TC/SC OFFICERS:

# CONTENTS

FOREWORD. .3   
INTRODUCTION. .5

1 Scope.. ... 6   
2 Normative references . .. 6   
3 Terms and definitions .   
4 Parameter measurement tolerances .8   
5 General safety considerations .. .. 8

5.1 General.. .. 8   
5.2 Insulation, cables and wiring ........ .. 9   
5.3 Venting ... .9   
5.4 Temperature/voltage/current management . .. 10   
5.101 Safety description and risk assessment (SDRA) ... .10   
5.102 Earth fault isolation .. .11

6 Type test conditions ........ ... 11   
7 Specific requirements and tests . .12

7.1 Charging procedures for test purposes ..... .. 12   
7.2 Reasonably foreseeable misuse. .12   
7.3 Considerations for internal short-circuit – Design evaluation . . 13

7.3.1 General . . 13   
7.3.2 Internal short-circuit test (cell) . .13   
7.3.3 Propagation test (battery system) ..... .. 13

7.101 Insulation resistance test .14   
7.102 Dielectric strength test ..... .... 14

8 Battery system safety (considering functional safety).. .14

8.1 General requirements .14   
8.2 Battery management system (or battery management unit) ..... ..... 15

8.2.1 Requirements for the BMS . . 15   
8.2.2 Overcharge control of voltage (battery system) .15   
8.2.3 Overcharge control of current (battery system) ..... .. 15

9 EMC .. .15

10 Information for safety .. .15   
11 Marking and designation .......... .... 15   
12 Packaging and transport .. .16

ANNEX A (Normative) Operation region of cells for safe use .17

ANNEX B (Informative) Procedure of propagation test by laser irradiation .17

ANNEX C (Informative) Procedure of propagation test by other methods than the laser .......17

ANNEX AA (Informative) General electrical safety considerations ......... .. 18

A.1 Introduction.. .18   
A.2 Definition .. .18   
A.3 General safety considerations . .19   
A.4 Additional tests . .19

A.4.1 General . .19   
A.4.2 Test .... ... 19

Table 1 – Sample size for type test . .12

# INTERNATIONAL ELECTROTECHNICAL COMMISSION

# MARITIME BATTERY SYSTEMS –

# Part 1: Secondary lithium cells and batteries – Safety requirements

# FOREWORD

1) The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) is a worldwide organization for standardization comprising all national electrotechnical committees (IEC National Committees). The object of IEC is to promote international co-operation on all questions concerning standardization in the electrical and electronic fields. To this end and in addition to other activities, IEC publishes International Standards, Technical Specifications, Technical Reports, Publicly Available Specifications (PAS) and Guides (hereafter referred to as “IEC Publication(s)”). Their preparation is entrusted to technical committees; any IEC National Committee interested in the subject dealt with may participate in this preparatory work. International, governmental and non-governmental organizations liaising with the IEC also participate in this preparation. IEC collaborates closely with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in accordance with conditions determined by agreement between the two organizations.   
2) The formal decisions or agreements of IEC on technical matters express, as nearly as possible, an international consensus of opinion on the relevant subjects since each technical committee has representation from all interested IEC National Committees.   
3) IEC Publications have the form of recommendations for international use and are accepted by IEC National Committees in that sense. While all reasonable efforts are made to ensure that the technical content o f IEC Publications is accurate, IEC cannot be held responsible for the way in which they are used or for any misinterpretation by any end user.   
4) In order to promote international uniformity, IEC National Committees undertake to apply IEC Publications transparently to the maximum extent possible in their national and regional publications. Any divergence between any IEC Publication and the corresponding national or regional publication shall be clearly indicated in the latter.   
5) IEC itself does not provide any attestation of conformity. Independent certification bodies provide conformity assessment services and, in some areas, access to IEC marks of conformity. IEC is not responsible for any services carried out by independent certification bodies.   
6) All users should ensure that they have the latest edition of this publication.   
7) No liability shall attach to IEC or its directors, employees, servants or agents including individual experts and members of its technical committees and IEC National Committees for any personal injury, property damage or other damage of any nature whatsoever, whether direct or indirect, or for costs (including legal fees) and expenses arising out of the publication, use of, or reliance upon, this IEC Publication or any other IEC Publications.   
8) Attention is drawn to the Normative references cited in this publication. Use of the referenced publications is indispensable for the correct application of this publication.   
9) IEC draws attention to the possibility that the implementation of this document may involve the use of (a) patent(s). IEC takes no position concerning the evidence, validity or applicability of any claimed patent rights in respect thereof. As of the date of publication of this document, IEC had not received notice of (a) patent(s), which may be required to implement this document. However, implementers are cautioned that this may not represent the latest information, which may be obtained from the patent database available at https://patents.iec.ch [and/or] www.iso.org/patents. IEC shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights.

IEC 63462-1 has been prepared by IEC technical committee 18: Electrical installations of ships and of mobile and fixed offshore units. It is an International S tandard.

This is the first edition.

The text of this International Standard is based on the following documents:

<table><tr><td>Draft</td><td>Report on voting</td></tr><tr><td>XX/XX/FDIS</td><td>XX/XX/RVD</td></tr></table>

Full information on the voting for its approval can be found in the report on voting indicated in the above table.

The language used for the development of this International Standard is English.

This document was drafted in accordance with ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2, and developed in accordance with ISO/IEC Directives, Part 1 and ISO/IEC Directives, IEC Supplement, available at www.iec.ch/members_experts/refdocs. The main document types developed by IEC are described in greater detail at www.iec.ch/publications.

The committee has decided that the contents of this document will remain unchanged until the stability date indicated on the IEC website under webstore.iec.ch in the data related to the specific document. At this date, the document will be

reconfirmed,   
• withdrawn,   
• replaced by a revised edition, or   
amended.

# INTRODUCTION

The intention of this document is to provide minimum safety requirements for maritime battery systems to comply with authority requirements. This document alone may not include sufficient requirements but is intended to serve as a basis which can be used by stake holders, such as industry, national authorities and classification societies.

For the preparation of this document, it is considered that the IEC 62619:2022 contains the necessary basic requirements for lithium-ion battery systems and that supplementary requirements for maritime application are necessary.

This document constitutes an assessment of IEC 62619 to whether each requirement is suitable for maritime applications. Where IEC 62619:2022 is found insufficient, this document suggests additional or modified requirements.

# MARITIME BATTERY SYSTEMS –

# Part 1: Secondary lithium cells and batteries – Safety requirements

# 1 Scope

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable except as follows:

Add after the last paragraph:

This document applies to battery systems:

– with rated voltage up to 1500 V DC.

– below 2000 m above sea level

NOTE 1 The limitations are in line with IEC 60664

NOTE 2 Other requirements are necessary for clearance and creepage distances where ionized gases can occur.

This document does not provide requirements for

– the use of liquid insulation

– the use of gas insulation other than uncompressed air

– battery rooms

cables connecting the battery system to external systems NOTE 3 Requirements to battery rooms are under considerations in IEC 61892, IEC 62485 and IEC 60092-401

NOTE 4 Other standards may apply if liquid or gas insulation is used

# 2 Normative references

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable except as follows:

Addition:

IEC 60079-10-1: Classification of areas – explosive gas atmospheres

IEC 60092-101, Electrical installations in ships - Part 101: Definitions and general requirements

IEC 60092-201, Electrical installations in ships - Part 201: System design – General

IEC 60092-202, Electrical installations in ships - Part 202: System design – Protection

IEC 60092-302-2, Electrical installations in ships - Part 302-2: Low voltage switchgear and controlgear assemblies - Marine power

IEC 60092-401, Electrical installations in ships - Part 401: Installation and test of completed installation

IEC 60092-504, Electrical installations in ships - Part 504: Automation, control and instrumentation

IEC 60092-507, Electrical installations in ships - Part 507: Small vessels

IEC 60533, Electrical and electronic installations in ships - Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Ships with a metallic hu ll   
IEC 61439-1, Low-voltage switchgear and controlgear assemblies – Part 1: General rules   
IEC 61439-2, Low-voltage switchgear and controlgear assemblies – Part 2: Power switchgear and controlgear assemblies   
IEC 61892, Mobile and fixed offshore units - Electrical installations   
IEC 62620:2014, Secondary cells and batteries containing alkaline or other non-acid electrolytes - Secondary lithium cells and batteries for use in industrial applications   
IEC 62742, Electrical and electronic installations in ships - Electromagnetic compatibility (EMC) - Ships with a non-metallic hull

# 3 Terms and definitions

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable except as follows:

Replace the following:

# 3.11

# battery system battery

system which comprises one or more cells, modules or battery packs and has a battery management system capable of controlling current in case of overcharge, overcurrent, overdischarge, and overheating

Note 1 to entry: The battery pack may incorporate a protective housing and be provided with terminals or other interconnection arrangements.

Note 2 to entry: The battery system can have cooling or heating units and other subsystems and components as part of functional and safety design. More than one battery system may constitute a larger battery system. The battery system is sometimes also referred to as a battery.

[SOURCE IEC 62619:2022, 3.11, modified: Note 2]

Additional subclauses:

# 3.101

# battery fire

emission of flames from a cell, module, battery pack, or battery system for more than 1 s.

Note 1 to entry: Sparks and arcing are not considered as flames.

Note 2 to entry: A battery fire is considered self-perpetuating and cannot be extinguished by means of fire suppression mediums.

# 3.102

# external fire

Emissions of flames from sources which are not part of the battery.

[SOURCE: Merriam-Webster]

NOTE: This definition replaces the definition given in 3.17 in IEC 62619.

# 3.103 inherently short-circuit and earth fault proof

The state of an electric equipment or assembly protected against short-circuits and earth faults by suitable design and erection provisions.

[SOURCE: IEV 826-14-15]

# 4 Parameter measurement tolerances

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable.

# 5 General safety considerations

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable except as follows:

# 5.1 General

Add after last paragraph:

Battery systems for ships shall include all required active or passive safety systems to manage internal failures. Battery systems shall not be dependent on external fire suppression systems to control incidents which occur due to internal failure. Hazards arising due to external risks shall be managed by methods presented in this document.

Battery systems for ships and offshore units shall be designed and installed to comply with the relevant parts of IEC 61892, IEC 60092-101, IEC 60092-201, IEC 60092-202, IEC 60092-302- 2, IEC 60092-401, IEC 60533 and IEC 62742. For ships not exceeding 500 tons or with a length up to 50 m, IEC 60092-507 is applicable.

Battery systems for ships shall comply with the environmental conditions specified in IEC 60092-101, 4.6, and for offshore units to IEC 61892-1, 4.4.

Control, monitoring and communications systems contained in the battery system shall comply with requirements specified in 60092-504.

Constructional requirements shall be in accordance with IEC 61892-3 for offshore units and IEC 60092-302-2 for ships. Specifically, battery systems shall comply with requirements for creepage and clearance, cable cross section, materials, fuses, discrimination and selectivity, interfaces and power quality.

Battery systems shall be safe with respect to the pollution degree of the environment, taking into consideration the discharge of fire suppression media which may change the macro environment to pollution degree 4. In this case, battery systems can lose operational functions but shall not lose any safety functionality. Requirements for safety shall consider how water and/or saltwater mist, sprinkling or flooding affects the safety barriers in the battery design, and the battery manufacturer shall document which fire suppression media may be used together with the batteries, and, if applicable, which fire suppression media may not be used.

NOTE: Pollution degree is defined in IEC 61439-1, 7.1.2.

Battery systems should assume pollution degree 3 for determining creepage and clearance distances. If measures are taken to maintain a lower pollution degree, they shall maintain the pollution degree during both normal operation and during the release of fire suppression media.

Overvoltage category III shall be used for the determination of creepage and clearance distances for battery systems which are intended to be connected to the primary distribution system, unless the required impulse withstand voltage is determined.

NOTE 1 Over-voltage category is defined in IEC 60664-1:2020, 4.3.2.

NOTE 2 The primary distribution system is defined in IEC 60092-201:2019, 3.2.10.

Battery systems shall be provided with an ingress protection of minimum IP 44. A lower degree of ingress protection can be used for parts of the BMS mounted separately from the battery modules and current carrying components.

# 5.2 Insulation, cables and wiring

Replace subclause with:

Insulation shall be sufficient to withstand the maximum anticipated voltage, current, temperature and humidity requirements. The design of an internal wiring shall be such that adequate clearances and creepage distances are maintained between conductors and live parts at different voltages or between live parts and non-current-carrying accessible parts. Cell swelling and reduction of electrical spacing shall be considered. Hazardous live parts of the battery system shall be protected to avoid the risk of electric shocks, including during installation.

The mechanical integrity of the whole battery system (cell/module/BMS) and their connections shall be sufficient to accommodate conditions of reasonably foreseeable misuse, cell swelling and other dynamic conditions which may cause reduction of elec trical spacing.

Cables, busbars, or other conductive components between the cells and the first protection device shall be inherently short-circuit and earth fault proof. See 3.103.

NOTE 1 Insulation can be provided by provision of cable insulation, adequate spacing, mechanical protection or restraints, etc.

Uninsulated conductive components exposed to the macro environment (battery space) shall be inherently short-circuit and earth fault proof. Current carrying components in the micro environment (inside modules) shall be insulated if the micro-environment is not sufficiently isolated from the macro-environment.

Insulation of cables, busbars and other current carrying components inside portions of the battery systems which are susceptible to reduction of electrical spacing or compromised ability of the insulation material to provide protection, shall be inherently short-circuit and earth fault proof.

NOTE 2 Reduction of spacing can occur e.g. due to cell swelling, mechanical deformations, pollution and hum idity

NOTE 3 Short circuit protection and a reference to IEC 63108 is under consideration.

All electrical cables and wiring shall be at least of a flame-retardant type according to relevant parts of IEC 60092-350. All electrical cables shall be constructed according to applicable IEC standards.

Installation of cables shall be done according to IEC 60092-401.

# 5.3 Venting

Add after the last paragraph:

The battery system shall be designed to safely remove the maximum amounts of gas which can vent contemporaneously in a worst-case scenario.

The battery manufacturer shall consider the maximum amount of gas vented in case of

a) a thermal runaway in a cell block; and   
b) the worst-case venting scenario assessed in the risk assessment, e.g. venting of one or more cell blocks, modules, or a full string.

Compliance shall be documented by the battery manufacturer based on the thermal propagation test specified in 7.3.3 and the risk assessment described in 8.

The battery manufacturer shall document all necessary information design parameters required for the safe handling of all gas amounts identified in a) and b) above.

The vented gas shall be vented to free air or remain contained in a safe enclosure, separate from other units in the battery space.

The arrangement shall be assessed according to IEC 60079-10-1: Classification of areas – explosive gas atmospheres.

In case of a venting event an alarm shall be communicated by the battery management system.

NOTE Examples of how venting can be detected are e.g. by pressure sensors, activation of a pressure relief valve, or by other methods.

# 5.4 Temperature/voltage/current management

Add after last paragraph:

The battery manufacturer shall specify a margin of safety between the maximum operating temperature limit and the onset temperature for thermal runaway. The max temperature limit shall take cell aging into account. Aged cells may experience onset of thermal runaway at lower temperatures than new cells.

NOTE If the onset temperature for thermal runaway of aged cells is not known, the battery manufacturer can assume that the onset temperature for aged cells is $20 \%$ lower than for new cells.

Additional subclauses:

# 5.101 Safety description and risk assessment (SDRA)

A safety description and risk assessment (SDRA) shall be developed by the battery manufacturer and shall describe all predictable potential hazards. As a minimum, in addition to the hazards, the description shall include a safety philosophy and onboard arrangement requirements (fire extinguishing medium, ambient temperature, air conditioning, etc.).

The SDRA shall consider both

1) Internal risks (how the cells can impact the environment), and   
2) External risks (how the environment can impact the cells).

Risks, hazards and systems which shall be assessed and described in the SDRA are:

a) Potential gas development (toxic, flammable, corrosive),   
b) Safety risk including identification of gas (gas volume, release rate and gas composition) released from the cell(s) during venting or thermal runaway condition in relation to voltage level at time of incident,   
c) External risk (heat, fire, water ingress , shock, etc);

d) Required battery room arrangement (fire/gas detection, alarm, ventilation rates , ventilation arrangement);   
e) Exposure to various fire extinguishing medium;   
f) Potential chemical reaction between battery chemistry (gases, electrolyte), and recommended fire extinguishing medium resulting in toxic, flammable, corrosive chemistry ;   
g) Fire extinguishing strategy/method;   
h) Internal cell failure/thermal runaway;   
i) Internal short circuit, external short circuit with the capability to deliver the full battery short circuit current, and external high-resistance short circuit,   
j) Electrical protections (over current, over voltage and under voltage),   
k) Presence of cooling liquids or other liquids and gases,   
l) Safe charging/discharging, characteristics.   
m) Mechanical interfaces and connection points (structure, sensors, wire harnesses, circuit boards, other components)   
n) Power and communication connection points   
o) Stray capacitance   
p) Alarm systems   
q) Heavy rolling and other large ship motions   
r) Environment and pollution degree   
s) Arc flash   
t) The potential risks of aged cells: gas composition, short circuit performance, TR onset temperature.   
u) If liquid or gas technologies for isolation and insulation are used, additional consideration shall be placed on risks and failure modes of these systems.

NOTE IEEE 1584 contains Arc Flash considerations for AC. Some principles of IEEE 1584 are also applicable to DC.

The battery manufacturer shall document the maximum fire load after an event. This is the energy that is released from a battery in the event of total battery fire and complete combustion of the battery system and is calculated as followed:

Fire load: $J = \boldsymbol { M } \cdot \boldsymbol { H }$

Where:

$M =$ total mass of combustible material in the battery cells in a battery string (kg)

$H =$ weighted sum of calorific values for all combustible materials in the string $( \mathsf { J } / \mathsf { k } \mathsf { g } )$ . This can be assumed to be the energy released from one cell released during TR multiplied by the number of cells in the battery.

# 5.102 Earth fault isolation

To be discussed. Please comment

# 6 Type test conditions

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable except as follows:

Replace Table 1 with:

Table 1 – Sample size for type test   

<table><tr><td colspan="3">Test items</td><td colspan="2">Test unit</td></tr><tr><td>Category</td><td colspan="2">Test</td><td>Cell(See a)</td><td>Battery system(see b and e)</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="10">Product safety test (safety of cell and battery system)</td><td colspan="2">7.2.1 External short-circuit test</td><td>R</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">7.2.2 Impact test</td><td>R (see c)</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">7.2.3 Drop test</td><td>R</td><td>Rf</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">7.2.4 Thermal abuse test</td><td>R</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">7.2.5 Overcharge test</td><td>R (see d)</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">7.2.6 Forced discharge test</td><td>R</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="2">7.3 Consideration of internal short-circuit</td><td>7.3.2 Internal short-circuit test</td><td>R*</td><td>-</td></tr><tr><td>7.3.3 Propagation test</td><td>-</td><td>R</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">7.101 External short circuit test</td><td></td><td>Rg</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">7.102 Dielectric strength test</td><td></td><td>R</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="3">Functional safety test (safety of battery system)</td><td colspan="2">8.2.2 Overcharge control of voltage</td><td>-</td><td>R</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">8.2.3 Overcharge control of current</td><td>-</td><td>R</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">8.2.4 Overheating control</td><td>-</td><td>R</td></tr><tr><td>Environmental tests</td><td colspan="2">See annex AB</td><td></td><td>R</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">“R” = required (minimum of 1)“R*” = required (minimum of 5 samples)“-” = unnecessary or not applicable</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">a The manufacturer can use “cell block(s)” instead of “cell(s)” at any test that specifies “cell(s)” as the test unit in this document. The manufacturer clearly declares the test unit for each test.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">b The test shall be performed on a complete string. The test setup shall represent the least favourable state of the system. Components and functionality can be scaled down or removed only if their absence does not reduce the potential hazard being tested for.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">c Cylindrical cell or cell block: impact test from 1 direction. Prismatic cell (including cell with laminate film case) or cell block: impact test from 2 directions.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">d The test is performed with the cells or cell blocks in those battery systems that are provided with only a single control or protection for charging voltage control.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">e If the positive and negative terminals of a battery are not accessible, the manufacturer is allowed to modify the sample(s) to make the terminals available for e.g. 7.101. The modification must be done in a way, which makes it unlikely that the test result is influenced.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">f Drop test shall be performed on modules/packs if these can be used as replaceable units.</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">g Only required once</td></tr><tr><td colspan="5">NOTE A requirement for all tests to be performed at a system level for higher safety is under consideration</td></tr></table>

# 7 Specific requirements and tests

# 7.1 Charging procedures for test purposes

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable

# 7.2 Reasonably foreseeable misuse

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable

# 7.3 Considerations for internal short-circuit – Design evaluation

# 7.3.1 General

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable

# 7.3.2 Internal short-circuit test (cell)

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable

# 7.3.3 Propagation test (battery system)

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable except as follows:

Replace item b) and c):

b) Test

The battery system is fully charged and then left until the cells stabilize in an ambient temperature corresponding to the maximum ambient temperature permitted by the battery manufacturer. The safety functions of the battery management system (BMS) shall be deactivated during testing.

One cell or cell block in the battery system, (hereafter target cells) is heated until the cell enters into thermal runaway. The target cells shall have the least favourable position in the module with regards to propagation.

The test module should be randomly selected from a production batch and should not be altered except for instrumentation.

The test module containing the target cells shall be surrounded by other modules in least favourable positions with regards to propagation and be installed in a battery system similar to the ones used on board ships.

The battery system may be modified if required to facilitate the thermal runaway of the target cells. The modification should be minimized and shall not affect the integral safety design or thermal properties of the battery system. The remaining modules in the battery system may be dummy modules as long as they have the same heat capacity, heat reflective properties and conductivity as the actual modules.

After thermal runaway in the cell is initiated, the heater trigger is turned off and the battery system is monitored for minimum 8 h and the batteries have returned to below the maximum operating temperature and the temperature is steadily declining.

The test shall be performed without any active external or integrated safety systems. However, safety system may be active if it is part of the battery system as an integral system component.

Methods of initiating thermal runaway in one cell shall be in accordance with Annex B or Annex C. The method which resembles the largest possible hazard shall be selected.

The method used to create a thermal runaway in one cell or cell block shall be described and documented in the test report.

NOTE 1 Overcharge is often used to initiate thermal runaway. Other methods can also be used, for example if overcharge is not a suitable method to force an actual thermal runaway.

NOTE 2 8 hours monitoring time can prove to be insufficient as the procedures for propagation test do not specify the quantity or location of temperature measurement points. Ensuring safety of the personnel handling the test sample after monitoring time is of highest importance. Handling of test sample could initiate thermal and fire runaway even after many hours monitoring time. The risk of rekindling increases when the sample is exposed to oxygen.

c) Acceptance criteria

Thermal runaway initiated in all cells in the target cell block. No external fire from the battery system, no unintended battery module rupture, no propagation between modules, and

1) No propagation between cells outside the target cells and no adjacent cells to exceed ${ \mathfrak { g } } 0 ^ { \circ } \complement$ during thermal runaway, or   
2) As an alternative, propagation between cells within the module may occur if this is part of the safety design, taking into account the amount of gas ventilated, heat generation and fire load from the module.

NOTE 1 Requirements to the room where the battery system is installed can inflict limitations to the selection of battery system solutions and safety design.

NOTE 2 Fire caused by the target cells is acceptable because the first thermal runaway is intentionally made for the test purpose as a trigger.

Add additional subclauses:

External short circuit test

a) Requirements

A forced external short circuit test on a string shall not cause cell failure ( fire, burst, explosion, electrolyte leakage, venting, rupture, or onset of thermal runaway), arcing or damage to other components except to dedicated short circuit protection devices. Monitoring, control and safety functions shall remain functional after the test.

b) Test

The battery system is fully charged and then left until the cells stabilize in an ambient temperature corresponding to the maximum ambient temperature permitted by the battery manufacturer.

The battery string shall be short-circuited in accordance with the following procedure:

TBD.

c) Acceptance criteria

No cell failure

No arcing

No loss of functionality in monitoring, control, or safety functions.

# 7.101 Insulation resistance test

An insulation resistance test shall be performed before and after the dielectric strength test according to IEC 61439-1.

# 7.102 Dielectric strength test

A dielectric strength test shall be performed according to IEC 60092-401.

# 8 Battery system safety (considering functional safety)

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable except as follows:

# 8.1 General requirements

Replace the second paragraph with:

IEC 61508 (all parts) or other suitable functional safety standard for the application may be used as references.

Replace the last paragraph with:

Full disconnection of battery pack (strings) on detection of hazard risks shall be considered.

Examples of hazards or risks are as follows: EMC, electric shock, hot spots at electrical interfaces, moving parts, water immersion, external short -circuit, internal short-circuit, Internal earth fault, tracking currents, arcing, overcharge, overheating, drop, crush, overdischarge, discharge with overcurrent, charging after an overdischarge, electrolyte leakage, ignition of emission gas, fire, etc.

Add after the last paragraph:

No single failure shall cause loss of both safety and alarm functions. Arcing, external short circuit and fire have been shown to be correlated and must be considered together, not as separate single failures.

Functions to detect situations which could lead to critical safety incidents should be implemented.

Detection systems, such as gas detectors, humidity monitoring, temperature sensors and similar devices should be considered.

# 8.2 Battery management system (or battery management unit)

# 8.2.1 Requirements for the BMS

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable.

# 8.2.2 Overcharge control of voltage (battery system)

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable.

# 8.2.3 Overcharge control of current (battery system)

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable except as follows:

Replace item c):

c) Acceptance criteria

The BMS shall detect the overcharging current and shall control the charging below the maximum charging current.

If the charger fails to control the charging current, the BMS shall terminate charging. No fire, no explosion

# 9 EMC

Replace this clause of IEC 62619:2022 with the following:

The battery system shall be in accordance with IEC 60533 or IEC 62742, as appropriate.

# 10 Information for safety

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable.

# 11 Marking and designation

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable.

# 12 Packaging and transport

This clause of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable.

Additional clauses:

# 101 Interface characteristics

# 101.1 General

IEC 61439-1:2011, 5.1 is applicable.

# 101.2 Voltage ratings

IEC 60092-302-2:2019, 5.2 is applicable except as follows:

Replace 5.2.1 of IEC 61439-1:2020, with:

Rated voltage $U _ { \mathfrak { n } }$ shall be at least equal to the maximum voltage of the battery system.

NOTE IEC 60092-302-2 refers to IEC 61439-1 and IEC 61439-2 and only specifies additional requirements to cater for the maritime environment.

# 101.3 Current ratings

IEC 61439-1:2020, 5.3 is applicable.

# 101.4 Provisions for maximum load

EC 60092-101:2018, 4.4 is applicable.

# ANNEX A

# (Normative)

# Operation region of cells for safe use

This Annex of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable

# ANNEX B

# (Informative)

# Procedure of propagation test by laser irradiation (see 7.3.3)

This Annex of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable.

# ANNEX C

# (Informative)

# Procedure of propagation test by other methods than the laser (see 7.3.3)

This Annex of IEC 62619:2022 is applicable.

# ANNEX AA (Informative)

# General electrical safety considerations

This Annex is additional to IEC 62619:2022 and is not normative. However, the requirements of this Annex may be applicable when referenced directly by agreement.

# A.1 Introduction

Experience from unintended incidents, including accidents, involving battery systems shows the need for focus on general electrical safety of the battery system, in addition to already much covered chemistry safety. Safety barrier(s) should be introduced to reduce the amount of gas released during thermal runaway (TR) and thereby making it possible to handle any unintended situation while maintaining the required level of safety.

Experience shows that standards used in the market does not sufficiently highlight the importance of electrical safety, such as short circuit inside the battery system, which is as likely as outside the battery system and poses similar risk as other failure modes described.

If a battery is rapidly charged or discharged, the electrolyte in a cell may heat to the point of ignition and pose a threat of thermal runaway and/or a flammable or toxic gas release. Hence, passive electrical protection components such as fuses and circuit breakers are the key to prevent the occurrence of this type of failures.

The following published papers can be observed:

– EMSA Maritime Battery Study (doc 11B59ZDK-1 dated 2020-05-05), in particular chapter 8.1.4.   
Lightweight and electrically propelled Ro-Pax ships. A report by Lighthouse (Swedish Maritime Competence Centre)

The report by Lighthouse highlighted concerns related to what level of a thermal runaway in a battery system should be manageable in the design (chapter 5.2.2 in the report). According to the Lighthouse report, fuses should be installed at least between modules to avoid short circuit of larger units. The report states that even with tested thermal runaway protection on cell level, there would always be a risk that parallel connected cells, or the complete module becomes involved in a thermal runaway. Hence, the Lighthouse report introduces the concept of Casualty Unit (the risk level defined in the battery safety concept in the report) (see also A.2), which is defined by thermal runaway propagation tests together with short circuit protection tests.

A thermal runaway propagation test should be performed on the defined casualty unit as well as other failure modes in addition to single cell failure. A test on a casualty unit would also provide information to determine design criteria for the fire suppression system(s), ventilation system and explosion integrity (if applicable).

If the casualty unit is the same module containing the cells for which thermal runaway propagation already has been tested and if the amount of gas released from the casualty unit can be determined by other means than testing, then the test on a casualty unit may not be required.

# A.2 Definition

casualty unit

the greatest of:

– the largest module of connected cells, or   
– the largest module (of both parallel and series connected cells) without external short circuit protection.

# A.3 General safety considerations

In addition to 5.101 the concept of casualty unit should be added as follows:

A safety description shall be developed by the battery manufacturer. The description shall define the casualty unit and describe all potential hazards. As a minimum , the description shall include a safety philosophy, onboard arrangement requirements (fire extinguishing medium, ambient temperature, air conditioning, ventilation, etc.) and the potential hazards represented by the battery chemistry taking into consideration the results from propagation testing and the defined casualty unit. The safety description shall consider the following:

a) Inherently safe battery system design   
Each casualty unit in a battery system shall be fitted with disconnection function which may electrically isolate itself from the remaining units.   
Each casualty unit shall be capable of early detection of arcing conditions and selfdisconnect.   
b) Protection from electrical hazards   
Relevant requirements on protection from electrical hazards in IEC 62933-5-2:2020, 7.10.   
c) Safeguards and protective measures   
Relevant requirements on safeguards and protective measures in IEC 62933-5-2:2020, 7.11

# A.4 Additional tests

# A.4.1 General

In addition to IEC 62619:2022 7.3.2 (Internal short-circuit test (cell)) and IEC 62619:2022, 7.3.3 (Propagation test (battery system)), the thermal runaway prevention tests of A.4.2 should be performed on the battery system/module design.

# A.4.2 Test

The battery system is fully charged and then left until the cells stabilize in an ambient temperature corresponding to the maximum ambient temperature permitted by the battery manufacturer. The safety functions of the battery management system (BMS) shall be activated during testing.

The test module should be randomly selected from a production batch and should not be altered except for instrumentation.

The test module shall be surrounded by other modules in least favourable positions with regards to propagation or other failure modes and be installed in a battery system similar to the ones used on board ships. The surrounding test modules shall be fully functional and charged modules.

The tests shall be performed with any active external safety systems, such as fire extinguishing.

The tests shall at least include temperature, vibration, overcharge, over -discharge, short circuit (inside battery system, but outside of module) and the methods used shall be described and documented in the test report. Other tests may be required if identified as a thermal runaway prevention mitigation arrangement in the safety description.

608 Acceptance criteria:

609 a) no thermal runaway, and   
610 b) safe function by battery system/module(s) after each test.

611 NOTE UN38.3 tests alone are not sufficient as these are intended to ensure safety of lithium -ion batteries during 612 transportation of dangerous goods.

# ANNEX AB

# (normative)

This Annex is not fully developed. Please comment.

This annex covers tests which are to be performed to document compliance with environmental conditions specified in the IEC standards mentioned in ch. 5.1

<table><tr><td rowspan="2" colspan="2"></td><td colspan="3">Required level</td><td rowspan="2">Reference</td></tr><tr><td>Cell</td><td>Module</td><td>Battery System</td></tr><tr><td rowspan="16">Environmental Tests</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Vibration</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 60068-2-6-Test Fc</td></tr><tr><td>Drop Test</td><td></td><td>X</td><td></td><td>IEC 62619 7.2.3</td></tr><tr><td>Dry Heat</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 60068-2-2</td></tr><tr><td>Damp Heat</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 60068-2-30-Test Db</td></tr><tr><td>Low Temperature</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 60068-2-1</td></tr><tr><td>Inclination (Static only where no moving parts)</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 60092-504</td></tr><tr><td>Electrostatic discharge</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 61000-4-2</td></tr><tr><td>Electro-magnetic field</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 61000-4-3</td></tr><tr><td>Conducted Low Frequency</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 60945</td></tr><tr><td>Conducted Radio Frequency</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 61000-4-6</td></tr><tr><td>Electrical Fast Transients/ Burst</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 61000-4-4</td></tr><tr><td>Surge</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 61000-4-5</td></tr><tr><td>Radiated Emission</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>CISPR 16-2-3</td></tr><tr><td>Conducted Emission</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>CISPR 16-2-1</td></tr><tr><td>Enclosure</td><td></td><td></td><td>X</td><td>IEC 60529</td></tr></table>